One of the most annoying things about
LinkedIn ads is that you do not have any
control over when your ads actually
serve. For example, you launch a
campaign, you've got $100 a day in daily
budget, and in practice, in your mind,
you think that you're spending that $100
a day over a 24-hour period evenly. But
if you've ran ads before, you know
that's just not how it works. The
reality is is you spend $100 at 3 in the
morning and the rest of the day you're
not serving any impressions anymore.
This is why ad scheduling is so
important and I want to walk you through
in this video how you can use an
automation platform called Sammy in
order to set up an ad schedule on your
behalf for LinkedIn ads. If you're new
to the channel, I'm Sylvie Perez. I'm
the founder of Ad Conversion. We teach
9,000 plus B2B marketers how to master
ads and we manage over $40 million a
year in ad spend for top B2B SAS brands.
So, the platform I mentioned was Sammy.
We actually created Sammy out of
desperation inside of our ad agency cuz
we needed a better way to scale our
clients results and our team's time. And
with Sammy, we can basically set up
workflows, think Zapier, but for ads,
where we can set up workflows to
optimize performance, manage budgets, or
even monitor our KPIs. So, I'm going to
walk you through what ad scheduling
looks like here inside of Sammy. So,
once you create your free account on
Sammy, you're going to come to the
create SAM section. And under the create
SAM section, we've got a bunch of
different templates for you. We call
these SAM templates. They're basically
automations that are already templatized
for you, so you can launch it in 5
minutes or less. And one of the
templates we have here is called ad
scheduling. So, what we're going to do
is we're going to create a schedule, a
two-step sequence to pause our ads at
the end of the day and then reenable
them at the start of the day. So, I'm
going to go and click on this. I'm going
to select LinkedIn. Click create. And
now you can see that we already have the
entire workflow created out. And now all
I have to do is I need to modify my
rules with my conditions. So, just for
quick context, if you're new to ad
automation, this is a workflow. We call
that a SAM. And inside of a SAM or
inside of a workflow, you have rules.
And rules are the conditions on what
must be true in order for the action to
be taken on your behalf. So, in this
case, I've got a two-step sequence with
two rules. The first rule is to pause.
So, at this case, it's going to at the
end of the day at 8:00 p.m. UTC, it's
going to pause my LinkedIn campaigns.
And then at the start of the day at 8 am
UTC, it's going to reenable my campaigns
that got paused. Very straightforward.
And then it's going to loop again the
following day. And this workflow will
run for me every single day until I
decide to turn it off. So what I've got
to do now is I need to click modify on
the first step. And I'm going to go
ahead and change in my customer account
here because I've integrated LinkedIn.
So if I have an MCC account, it'll pull
in all my client accounts. And what I'm
going to do is I'm going to choose my
campaigns that I want to be part of this
ad schedule. So, let's go ahead and do
that here. And for the sake of
simplicity, I'm just going to select
all. And I'm going to go ahead and click
save. So, I've got 140 campaigns
selected in this account. And what we're
going to do is we're going to let the
task be pause. And because I want to
pause at the end of the day, that's
fine. But if you, let's say you're like,
I don't want to be that aggressive. I
don't want to pause. For context, we've
tested this and we haven't seen much
performance backlash around pausing and
reenabling our campaigns this
frequently. Uh but if you are
conservative about this then you can
switch it to budget and then instead you
can do a minus 90% and it'll decrease
instead of pause. So in this case it'll
decrease by 90% versus pausing your
campaigns completely. But like I said we
haven't found too much of a restriction
to it. So I'm going to leave it as
pause. And then what we're going to do
is we're going to have this rule one run
once per day. That's totally fine. Seven
days a week Sunday through Saturday. The
time frame is going to be this month and
we're going to leave the rule as is the
formula. So in this case is if
impressions are greater than zero, it
knows that those ads are serving and we
want to go ahead and pause them. So I'll
leave that as is. And then lastly,
because I have my Slack integrated, I'm
going to go enable Slack notifications.
I'm going to choose my channel that I
want to get notified in. And here now
once this rule runs, it's going to send
me a message in Slack saying campaigns
have been paused for the night shift. So
I know that the ad scheduling is
running. So I'm going to go and save
this. And then now for the second step
in my sequence, I'm going to modify this
And now I'm going to just go ahead and
enable Slack notifications, choose my
channel, and then I would go ahead and
save this. And that's it. We're done.
One thing I will mention is if you're
watching this and you're like, "Silio,
what about time zones, right? How do I
modify the ad schedule based on time
zones?" It's a fantastic question. So,
by default, the way we have it in Sammy
is it's based on UTC time. This is also
the time zone that the platforms manage
and operate off of as well. So, what I
would suggest that you do is you take
the UTC time. So, right now it's 2:54
UTC time at the time of this recording.
And I would basically go on Google and I
would just say what compare your time
zone versus UTC time. Do the math,
right? Are you 5 hours behind? Are you
an hour behind, etc.? Uh, and then what
I would do is I would just change the
hour it runs based on your time zone.
And that's it. So, for example, maybe
instead of 8:00 p.m., I want to switch
this to be 9:00 p.m. or 7:00 p.m.,
whatever the case might be. 5 p.m. etc.
You can go ahead and just change the
hour so that once it runs, it hits the
right time zone for you. And that's
pretty much it. So, we would publish
this. And now we have this workflow
running. Now, I want to talk about the
math around this. Now that you
understand how the workflow works, let's
walk through the budget math and why ad
scheduling is so important to just
really illustrate why this is something
you should try, especially if you have a
small budget. So, imagine that you had a
$3,000 a month budget. And if you just
do the simple math, if you take that
$3,000 and you divide it by 30.4 for the
average days in a month, you would
realize you have about $100 a day over a
30-day time frame. If you took that same
$3,000 budget and instead you split it
over a 20-day time frame, now you're
talking $150 a day, up from $100 a day.
That's a 50% increase by just serving
your ads only during the weekdays versus
seven days a week. Now imagine if you
took that to another extreme. So instead
of only doing 20 days of of the month,
Monday through Friday, you also said,
"I'm not going to serve my ads 24 hours
a day." So if you only had a daily
budget of $100 and you spread that
across 24 hours, that's about $4 an
hour. Now, if you took that same $100
and you spread it across eight hours
instead of 24, now you're talking about
$12 an hour, that's a 200% increase in
daily budget, right? Now, obviously, if
you've served ads before and you ran ads
before, you know that you're not serving
impressions equally at different times
of the day, right? And spending equally
at different times of the day. Reality
is, it's much worse. It's you spend
everything in an hour or two and then
you're done for the rest of the day.
Which is why ad scheduling is super
important where you set guard rails on
the platform. So in this case, you're
setting guardrails on LinkedIn where
you're saying, "Hey LinkedIn, go crazy,
but only go crazy within these specific
time windows." So this allows you to
just stretch a small budget that much
further. And if you have a larger
budget, it allows you to be much more
effective with the distribution of your
ad spend and get even better results.
Just wanted to take a quick second and
say if you're loving this video, you
will absolutely love our free courses
over at adconversion.com.
We have free courses on Google ads,
Reddit ads, LinkedIn ads, and more. They
are seriously free. If you don't believe
us, just check out our wall of love. And
you can hear from past students and what
they've had to say. People have landed
jobs. They've started agencies. It's
been really incredible to hear the
impact we've had. And if you're
wondering, why is it free? What's the
catch? We're trying to build the go-to
place in the world to master B2B ads.
because when I was trying to figure this
stuff out, it was super complicated. I
waste a lot of money in the process and
I learned from a lot of unqualified
people and I wanted to remedy that with
ad conversion. So, if you're loving our
YouTube videos, you're going to
absolutely love our courses. Now that
you're clear on the automation and how
it works and the importance of
scheduling with the budget impact and
its implications, I want to show you how
you can actually figure out your ad
schedule so you understand what's the
best days of the week and times of the
day for you to serve using AI. So the
way this works is go into your CRM and
run a report basically looking at leads
created by date. And if you have date
and time, even better if it's time temp.
So what you're going to do is you're
going to export that. I highly recommend
that you remove any PII. So any emails,
phone numbers, anything like that.
Remove all that PII and then come into a
tool like chatgpt and then feed it this
data set. So in this case, I fed it a
data set of trial users and I said
here's a data set of trial users
created. run an analysis based on the
create date column to understand which
days of the week and times of the day
did we generate the most signups. And
from here, Chat GBT spit out some nice
little graphs showing me what's my trial
volume by day of the week. And lo and
behold, you can see here the majority of
my volume comes Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, and then
Saturday, Sunday, it dips dramatically.
So just seeing this data, I would
already feel pretty confident to just
run my ads Monday through Friday and not
seven days a week yet. And then not only
that, because I have the time stamp
based on the hours of the day, it also
did a report based on times of the day
as well. So in my case, you can see
there's a bit of an influx. So from 0
and 9:00 a.m., it's about, you know, we
are getting some volume, but it's
nothing dramatic. And then it really
spikes up between the hours of 9:00 a.m.
and 5:00 p.m. That seems to be the sweet
spot for me. And then it starts to dip
down a bit and it's a bit variable after
the fact. So when you have variability
like this where there's no clear outlier
in terms of times of day, then in this
case you can probably be a bit more
flexible and cover more hours versus
where you have clear separation. Then
you could be a bit more decisive. So
from here it'll tell me, okay, Thursday
was my highest day, followed by Tuesday,
Wednesday, Monday. Lowest days are
Saturday and Sunday. And then it'll tell
me my my breakdown by by hours of the
day. So from here, this is very great
information for me to then build my ad
schedule off of. And then also I can use
this information for posting content,
sending emails, you know, this kind of
stuff as well. I hope this video was
valuable. If you can give it a thumbs
up, it'll help grow our reach as a small
channel. Be sure to subscribe so you can
be notified of future videos. And when
you're ready, come check us out over at
adconversion.com.